[MUSIC]
So in this lecture we'll discuss some
of the downsides of Internet of Things
technology, some of the risks,
and especially the privacy and
security issues that come up when you have
IoT devices as pervasive as they are doing
things and
out of your control at some extent.
So, one advantage that we
listed in the last lecture
was that you don't have to
depend on people as much.
You can depend on your IoT
device to do things for you, and
you don't have to deal
with people as much.
So the downside of that is
potential social isolation, right?
You don't have to leave your
house if you don't want to.
You can be a hermit.
Stay in your house, never walk out,
and have everything come to you.
Right?
Now, usually it doesn't go to
that extreme, but it can happen.
It depends on the mindset of
the person who's using the device.
But if you need to
interact with people less,
you have less of an excuse to go
out there and deal with people.
And this picture is showing all these
people looking at their cell phones.
This a constant problem, right?
People looking at their phones even
in quote unquote, social engagements.
Say you're at a party and
people at the party, which is meant for
human interaction,
reading their cellphones and
looking down at their devices
rather than actually interacting.
So, you can have this increased risk of
social isolation because you don't have to
to interact with people.
Another big problem with IoT is that
you're now more dependent on technology,
and all the infrastructure
that comes along with it.
So, if things go down,
like for instance my email.
And this is not even really
an Internet of Things issue.
But, email, I use it on a standard
computer or my phone too, if I want to.
But if email goes down,
it's a serious impediment to me.
I need my email on a daily basis,
really, an hourly basis.
I need to get emails from people.
And so, when that type of thing goes down,
it's a problem for work and
even for personal life, right?
I communicate with some people personally
with some people through email,
or texting or
whatever communication technology you use.
When you're using it through IoT, through
the internet, and through your devices,
when your device goes down, or
when the network itself goes down,
it's a big problem for you.
So, power outages in
general are a big problem
because all your devices are going down.
I mean their charges are gonna
die even if they're on battery.
But if your device goes down.
So for instance, If my phone, so
this happens to my wife all the time.
She has a phone.
I won't say the brand.
She has a popular phone.
When she gets an update on her phone,
like she just recently got
an update on her phone.
The thing just hangs up.
Regularly.
Just yesterday, she's talking to me and
suddenly it hangs up.
She talks to me again.
It hangs up for no reason, right.
Because the update that was
supposed to improve her device.
So now, her being dependent
on this device all the time,
when she gets an update and it goes wrong,
when there are bugs in the software,
it's a much more serious problem.
And buggy software is always
a problem on a desktop,
say, but
when it's something that you use a lot.
For instance,
if it's a life critical thing,
like we talked about insulin
pumps a couple of lectures back.
If that thing has a bug,
that's a serious problem.
I mean, you can die off of that, right?
A pacemaker has a bug,
there's a serious problem.
And these things actually
happened in medical devices too,
that you've had these bugs and
people have died.
We won't go into them,
I don't have slides on these right now.
But there are devices
that this has happened.
And the more these IoT devices
get integrated into our lives,
the more dependent we are.
So when they go wrong,
it's a much worse problem for us.
Privacy and Security.
So another property of these
IoT devices is they are,
they're recording information.
They are observing us.
Now, presumably for our benefit.
But they are observing us a lot and
they are pervasive, so everywhere.
So for instance, your cell phone.
That thing is observing your location.
If you have your location services on,
which most people have on because a lot
of applications depend on those services.
You have that on, it is reported your GPS,
your location at all times, and it can
easily be sending that data back to Apple
or whoever, whoever your manufacture is.
And that happens all the time.
This type of data is being
tracked by your phone, and
sent back to some central location.
Now maybe they're using it for
good purposes, to help you.
Like having your location means
that when you're looking for
a restaurant, you don't have to report
your location, it just knows, and
it can tell you where all
the nearby restaurants are.
So that can be beneficial.
But it is tracking you all the time.
Health monitors.
They're tracking your health information,
right, all the time, and
sending them on a network
to some cloud server.
So there's important
information about your health
that is being transmitted over the network
and stored in some remote server.
TV watching habits, media watching,
whatever media you're watching.
That type of thing is.
So, say you've got a new TV, it can track,
in fact it typically
records what you watch.
In fact, my DVR it flags,
when I'm looking at the list of TV shows,
it flags which ones it
thinks I'll want to watch.
Now, how does it figure that out?
It's tracking my activity, knows what
type of shows I've watched in the past,
finds similar shows and
suggest them to me.
So that's a benefit, right?
But just understand that it is tracking
everything that you're watching
on your TV or your DVR, things like this.
Actually, we see this all the time with
people must have interacted with this,
when you buy something online.
So, one thing I do is I build
quad copters with my son.
We build quad copters, I have a research
project on this, remote control, right?
Whenever I make purchase
like a quad coptor purchase,
suddenly all the ads I see are for
quad coptor parts.
Motors and RC controls and all this, and
you must have interacted with this, right?
It's tracking what you're buying,
and then just throwing ads at you.
It's doing it for marketing purposes, but
it's throwing ads at you according
to things you've bought in the past.
So, purchasing habits, cellphone or
whatever device you're purchasing on.
Say if your refrigerator's making
purchases for you, food purchases for
you or something like that,
the fridge itself can track that data and
give it to some third party.
Driving habits.
So, cars have lots of sensors,
about the speed and
things like that, and if you're hitting
the brake, something like that.
And car incident reporting,
the insurance agencies can use that
when you're trying to get money back for
your car.
So say you crash your car and you say,
look, I was hitting the brake and
they say, well, the car says
you weren't hitting the break.
So, you owe us this much money, right?
So that type of data is being recorded,
sent to insurance agencies, and
they can use that against you.
So, data can be used to market to you.
I already mentioned this, but
the ads that you see on your computer or
on your phone, those things happen,
they pick ads, basically selectively,
based on what your purchase habits are.
So, if they know you're interested in
buying a particular type of device,
you'll get ads related to that.
Health problems.
So, if they know you're on a certain
type of drug, they'll give you ads for
related drugs for related issues,
things like this.
So, that's probably the most popular
use of this data is marketing, right?
Often you give
permission to the person you purchase
the device from, you give them permission
to use that data in those long
agreements that you click Okay to.
So when you buy a device, buy a phone,
or put an application on your phone and
it says do you accept the agreement terms?
And you don't read that,
but you click Okay.
So, in that, you are giving up
all ownership of all data often.
Right?
So all this data that's being tracked,
it can legally be given to
some third party agency,
and then they can sell that
data whenever they want to.
So, it's hard to keep track of your data.
You don't know who has your data,
because you agreed at some point
to allow them to own that data.
Oh, insurance agencies.
So, the car accidents, car insurance.
They can track the data about your car
see how you were driving at the time of
the accident and use that information.
It could be used to your advantage.
They could say oh, you did hit the brakes,
so it's not your fault.
Or they could say look, you didn't
hit the brakes so it is your fault.
So, it can be used either way.
Also, undiagnosed health problems.
So this is a little creepy but
this can certainly happen.
So, insurance agencies
are basically statisticians.
They do statistics to
determine health insurance.
How much they are gonna charge you,
they do based on the state of your health.
So, they can predict what the state
of your health will be based on
available data.
So for instance,
say you've got Fitbit, and
Fitbit is recording
data about your health.
How your heart rate and things like this.
That data can be used by
an insurance agency to
figure out how much they wanna charge you.
They can say look,
based on your health right now,
we can predict that in a few years, you
might come down with this disease and so
we're gonna charge you more.
So, this type of information is very
useful to different
agencies in different ways.
And you should be aware that while these
IoT devices are beneficial to you,
they are storing data and that data may or
may not be in your control.
Security's another thing.
Often this data is held
in the cloud somewhere.
So say FitBit, it tracks your data,
it sends it to some cloud servers.
Now, this is medical information and
you would like it to remain private.
And they maybe try to keep it private,
but there are hackers.
There are people who steal data, and you
must have heard about this in the news.
And so, the data can be attacked
at the cloud server, and
it's out of your control.
So if that data isn't
maintained in a secure way.
So, what we're showing
over here is basically
a rough picture of
an encryption algorithm.
But the idea is that data
would need to be encrypted.
If it's private data,
health data, you'd like that to
be encrypted on the cloud server.
But you as a user don't have any control,
direct control over
whether encryption is being used, or
maybe it's not being used consistently.
You can't control that directly, right?
That's up to the cloud server.
So you are left to trust them
to take care of your data, and
often these agencies are not trustworthy.
I don't want to name names, but
if you've heard about any hacks about
particular companies having
their databases stolen.
And it's happened many times over the last
few months or the last few years,
that data isn't being held in a secure
way and then your private data's stolen.
So this can happen.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]